feature/8624-chris-frontend-documentation-best-practices (#8823)
department-of-veterans-affairs/va-mobile-app: VAMobile/documentation/docs/Engineering/FrontEnd/DevelopmentBestPractices.md

If possible, choose the relevant template for your ticket. For example,  if you're creating a bug ticket, choose the Bug Report Template and include severity in the title, labels, and body.

### Working on tickets

All engineering work requires a ticket.

Every ticket must satisfy the requirements in the "Creating tickets" section above. If information is missing, add it or contact the relevant stakeholders.

Before an engineer can begin work on a ticket, it must contain an estimate. Bugs get an initial estimate of 1 to cover a short investigation. Other tickets are left to the engineers' discretion.

Once everything is in place, complete the following tasks:

- Assign yourself
- Assign the appropriate QA engineer if not already assigned
- Move the ticket to In Progress
- Create a branch as described below in the Branches section

Then you can begin work. Keep stakeholders up to date as you work by commenting on the ticket with any important details or questions. This will also preserve information so everyone can reference it in the future.

On completion of your work, double check the following:

- All items in Acceptance Criteria are implemented

> - Accessibility features are in place (test with iOS and Android screen readers)

Author: Updated the wording on this

> - Unit and E2E tests are updated or extended to cover your changes

Reviewer: This would essentially mean needing to include detox changes with a PR, correct? If that's the case it's a pretty big change to our current practices. One I know Tim W. wants us to eventually make, just uncertain if we are there yet.

Our team follows a set of best practices around tickets, branches, and PRs to ensure a smooth development process and high quality code. Here we'll describe the key points to keep in mind.

## Tickets

We use tickets to track all our engineering work. They precisely specify the work to be performed, allow stakeholders to track progress, and guide QA in assessing the resulting work.

### Creating tickets

Every ticket must contain at least the following information:

- A detailed description of the work
- Clearly specified Acceptance Criteria
- Screenshots or links to mockups where applicable
- All relevant labels ("front-end" for FE work, "Health" for Health and Benefits work, "Global" for global work, etc)
- An epic relating to the ticket's larger context

If possible, choose the relevant template for your ticket. For example, if you're creating a bug ticket, choose the Bug Report Template and include severity in the title, labels, and body.

### Working on tickets

All engineering work requires a ticket.

Every ticket must satisfy the requirements in the "Creating tickets" section above. If information is missing, add it or contact the relevant stakeholders.

> Before an engineer can begin work on a ticket, it must contain an estimate. Bugs get an initial estimate of 1 to cover a short investigation. Other tickets are left to the engineers' discretion.

Reviewer 2: https://department-of-veterans-affairs.github.io/va-mobile-app/docs/About%20our%20team/team-charter#estimation

> Before an engineer can begin work on a ticket, it must contain an estimate. Bugs get an initial estimate of 1 to cover a short investigation. Other tickets are left to the engineers' discretion.

Author: Good call, added that link

Once everything is in place, complete the following tasks:

- Assign yourself
- Assign the appropriate QA engineer if not already assigned
- Move the ticket to In Progress
- Create a branch as described below in the Branches section

Then you can begin work. Keep stakeholders up to date as you work by commenting on the ticket with any important details or questions. This will also preserve information so everyone can reference it in the future.

On completion of your work, double check the following:

- All items in Acceptance Criteria are implemented

> - Confirm screen screen reader functionality on both iOS and Android for accessibility

Reviewer 3: Not sure whether you meant the double `screen` in this bullet point?

Author: Thanks, removed the double

- Unit and E2E tests are updated or extended to cover your changes
- Relevant documentation is updated to reflect the changes in your PR

Then create a Pull Request. See the Pull Requests section below for more information.

## Branches

Feature branches are temporary branches where we develop and test new features. We implement every code change in a feature branch before merging it into the default branch.

:::info
For features that must be rolled out gradually, or where precise feature activation timing is required, use a [remote config flag](https://firebase.google.com/docs/remote-config/).
:::

Our default branch is `develop`. Create your feature branch from there, named as follows:

```

> type/ticketnumber-description-of-work

Reviewer 2: Intentional to no longer include name of who made the branch?

Separately, existing practice has been generally (but not consistently) using PascalCase for the `description-of-work` section which I think makes more sense because we can use `-`'s to add additional descriptors (e.g. `bug/####-Android-BugDetails`).

Author: Yeah, see Tim's comment above about branch naming.

I updated to PascalCase since I agree, that's what we generally do as a team. There can be some weirdness around case sensitivity with GitHub, but I haven't noticed it being a problem for us

```

> The ticket number lets us track back to the relevant ticket. The type and description show the branch's purpose at a glance. Here are some example branch names:

Reviewer 3: Even though it's mostly self-explanatory, should we explicitly list out the types that we want people to name their branches under and their intended purposes, or should we allow people to use their own discretion? I know there are examples listed below, just not sure if that signifies these are types people _should_ be using.

Reviewer 2: I think we should leave it intentionally vague. 

Narin and I recently had a similar discussion around [our PR template](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va-mobile-library/blob/main/.github/pull_request_template.md?plain=1) listing `where Issue type = bug, feature, spike, CU (code upkeep), etc.` and agreed that the "etc." was good to allow some freedom. As long as there's some reasonable level of consistency so most tickets fall into similar buckets, it didn't seem worthwhile trying to be too prescriptive.

Author: If we start automating tasks based on the branch names, we'll probably need to get more strict about branch naming. I'm not too worried about it being perfect for now since there's no automation

Reviewer 4: yes, please use a strict branch naming like we described above

Author: Added the following:
> Types are `feature`, `bug`, `chore`, and `hotfix`. Description is CamelCase with optional dashes to add further details.

Reviewer 2: If this is supposed to be the totality of options, I disagree with the list. 

Some `types` we have used in the past that I feel do not fit those bins unless your definition of `chore` is extremely broad:
- spike
- cu (code upkeep)
- dependencies
- doc
- tests
- Detox (could be merged with tests?)
- storybook
- linting

Also, more broadly, the name `chore` seems very trivializing and dismissive unless the work is minor. There are tasks that are simultaneously not minor and not adding features/making functional changes.

An important part of a branch name is to be able to tell what it's about easily so having super vague/generic type categories is detrimental to classifying the work/being able to quickly identify what a branch is for.

Author: @timwright12 do you have a specific list of branch types you'd like us to use?

Reviewer 4: let's start with: chore, feature, bug as they're industry standard

Reviewer 4: @alexandec let's start with: `chore`, `feature`, and `bug` as they're industry standard

- `feature/1234-description-of-feature-being-done`
- `chore/1234-description-of-chore-being-done`

> - `bugfix/1234-description-of-bug-being-fixed`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `bug/1234-description-of-bug-being-fixed`
```
Feel like most (all?) of us just use "bug" and the "fix" feels redundant since hopefully we aren't making branches to add bugs. 😆

Author: Sure, updated

5. Merge: the PR creator hits "Merge pull request" to merge their branch into the develop branch. On the ticket, the PR creator changes the pipeline to "With QA (develop)" and selects the current release under "Releases".
6. Post-merge: QA completes final testing and closes the ticket.

### Pull request creation

When creating a PR, fill out each section in the PR template, including:

- Description: provide context so a code reviewer or future developer understands why the PR exists and what it does
- Screenshots: add before/after screenshots or videos showing the changes
- Testing information: confirm testing on iOS and Android. Document any special considerations like edge cases or areas of focus for QA
- Reviewer validations: tell reviewers what to check. You can usually copy the Acceptance Criteria from the ticket
- Complete all PR checklist items

:::info
If you're actively working on your branch, create a draft PR. Move the PR out of draft status when it's complete and ready for review.
:::

> Immediately after creating the PR, click the "Connect issue" button and choose the associated ticket. You must be logged into ZenHub to see the "Connect issue" button.

Author: Updated so this is listed before creating the PR instead. I checked and it works fine

:::important
It's critical to link the PR to the ticket with the "Connect issue" button so we can track the work performed.
:::

If your PR is especially complex, you can annotate the PR with comments to help reviewers understand why you made particular decisions.

> When you create a PR, GitHub Actions automatically runs linting checks, unit tests, and E2E tests on your branch. Fix any failures, and make sure unit and E2E tests are modified or extended to cover your changes. See our [Unit Tests documentation](/docs/Engineering/FrontEnd/Testing/UnitTesting) for best practices.

Reviewer 2: May be worth having a note to revert to Draft status if appropriate if tests are failing as it is not really ready for review.

Author: Added

### Pull request review

At least one review is required on every PR. Here are some guidelines for creating and reviewing PRs.

As a PR creator:

- Try to keep PRs under 400 lines. The larger the PR, the more difficult it is to review thoroughly.
- If a reviewer asks questions, add a comment under each question with your answer.
- If a reviewer requests changes, implement them or explain why you disagree.
- If no one reviews your PR within 24 hours, request a review on Slack.

As a PR reviewer:

> - Provide constructive feedback in a calm, civil manner. We're all working together to make the app better.

Reviewer 2: (╯°□°)╯︵ ┻━┻

Reviewer 4: I would also like us to largely keep feedback targeted towards best practice and away from opinion. Also, if you're not officially requesting changes to a PR you can say something like "leaving approval to (person) because I don't know enough about this code" or approve the PR. I don't want people dropping opinions in comments and expecting a back and forth if changes aren't being requested

Author: Updated to add these points

Before an engineer can begin work on a ticket, it must contain an estimate. Bugs get an initial estimate of 1 to cover a short investigation. Other tickets are left to the engineers' discretion.

Once everything is in place, complete the following tasks:

- Assign yourself
- Assign the appropriate QA engineer if not already assigned
- Move the ticket to In Progress
- Create a branch as described below.

Then you can begin work. Keep stakeholders up to date as you work by commenting on the ticket with any important details or questions. This will also preserve information so everyone can reference it in the future.

On completion of your work, double check the following:

- All items in Acceptance Criteria are implemented
- Accessibility features are in place (test with iOS and Android screen readers)
- Unit and E2E tests are updated or extended to cover your changes
- Relevant documentation is updated to reflect the changes in your PR

Then create a Pull Request. See the Pull Requests section below for more information.

## Branches

> Every code change to the app takes place in a feature branch. We use feature-xl branches for extra-large changes.

Reviewer 4: This would just be for feature work. I think we can kill the concept of `feature-xl` since it's just something we made up. Branch naming conventions should be like:

- `chore/1234-name-of-chore-being-done`
- `bugfix/1234-name-of-bug-being-done`
- `hotfix/1234-name-of-bug-being-done`
- `feature/1234-name-of-feature-being-done`

Some references about this:

- [Naming git branches](https://gist.github.com/jefffederman/1d492f98b8e3913a75ca)
- [Branch naming](https://dev.to/varbsan/a-simplified-convention-for-naming-branches-and-commits-in-git-il4)

Author: Makes sense to me, updated

### Feature branches

Our default branch is `develop`. Create your feature branch from there, named as follows:

```

> type/ticketnumber-yourname-description-of-work

Reviewer 4: Let's stop using the person's name unless there's a strong case to continue that. It's kind of makes sub branching weird

Author: Updated to remove the name

```

For example:

```
feature/1234-anna-add-contact-information-analytics
```

After completing work in your branch, create a PR as described in "Pull Requests" below.

> ### Feature-xl branches

Reviewer 4: I'd like to drop this concept entirely. features should be features, doesn't really batter the size

Author: Removed this feature-xl section

Use a feature-xl branch when you are working on a large feature that requires multiple sprints and tickets to complete. It contains all your work prior to release of the feature.

:::info

> For features that must be rolled out gradually, or where precise feature activation timing is required, use a feature flag instead of a feature-xl branch.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For features that must be rolled out gradually, or where precise feature activation timing is required, use a [remote config flag](https://firebase.google.com/docs/remote-config/).
```

Author: Updated

:::

> Before you start work, create a branch with the "feature-xl" prefix like:

Reviewer 4: again, I'd like to remove the concept of`xl`

Author: Sure, done

5. Merge: PR creator hits "Merge pull request" to merge their branch into the develop branch. On the ticket, PR creator changes the pipeline to "With QA (develop)" and selects the current release under "Releases".
6. Post-merge: QA completes final testing and closes the ticket.

### Pull request creation

When creating a PR, fill out each section in the PR template, including:
- Description: provide context so a code reviewer or future developer understands why the PR exists and what it does
- Screenshots: add before/after screenshots or videos showing the changes
- Testing information: confirm testing on iOS and Android. Document any special considerations like edge cases or areas of focus for QA
- Reviewer validations: tell reviewers what to check. You can usually copy the Acceptance Criteria from the ticket
- Complete all PR checklist items

Immediately after creating the PR, click the "Connect issue" button and choose the associated ticket. You must be logged into ZenHub to see the "Connect issue" button.

:::important
It's critical to link the PR to the ticket with the "Connect" issue" button so we can track the work performed.
:::

> Add the "FE-Needs Review" label. This indicates to other engineers that your PR is ready for review. If your PR is especially complex, you can annotate the PR with comments to help reviewers understand why you made particular decisions.

Reviewer 4: Do we need these labels? I feel like anything that isn't in "draft" needs FE review and there's a "code review" zenhub lane -- same comment for the QA label, we have a "with QA" zenhub lane.

Author: I think we added the labels because we had a lot of PRs and everyone was on one big team, so it was hard to keep track of everything. We can revisit now that we have smaller teams. One note, the labels are automated except for the initial "FE-Needs Review" label. I've removed mention of that label from the docs here

GitHub Actions automatically runs linting checks, unit tests, and E2E tests on your branch. Fix any failures, and make sure unit and E2E tests are modified or extended to cover your changes. See our Unit Tests documentation for best practices.

:::info

> If you have code that's not complete but you want others to take a look, consider creating a draft PR. You can move the PR out of draft status when it's done.

Reviewer 4: I'd like draft PRs to be the default we use while actively working

Author: Sure, I've updated the wording to be stronger on draft PRs
